(upbeat music) - Welcome everyone. So we are gonna begin by talking a little bit about the machine learning approach to solving problems. So here's the specific problem we'll be looking at. Given an image of some handwritten digit, we wanna figure out what that digit is. So in this particular case, it's a three, okay. And here are some more examples. So this one over here should be a zero. The next one is a one, a two, and so on. So how can a machine do this? How can a machine take a picture of a handwritten digit and decide what digit it is? Let's see. Well, a zero is composed of a single loop. A one has a single straight line. A four has three straight lines. So maybe what we could do is to write a piece of software that takes an image and looks for loops and lines, counts how many loops there are, how many lines there are, and the relative positions of them. And then once we have this information, we could write down a bunch of rules, like if there are two loops, one on top of another, then it must be an eight. People tried this and they tried very hard, in fact, and it didn't work too well. So one problem is that it's actually hard to even identify lines and loops robustly. Okay, so for example, look at the eight over here. The loop in the eight isn't completed so it makes it hard to identify reliably. But even with the lines and loops, there's so much variability in the way people write individual digits. Some people put a line through their seven. Some people write a one with three lines instead of just one. And in order to accommodate all this variability, hundreds of rules were required and the whole system became brittle and didn't work well. The machine learning approach to solving this problem is very different. Instead of us trying to figure out the underlying patterns, the loops and the lines and so on, we let the machine figure it out, okay. And what the machine needs in order to figure out these underlying patterns is a whole lot of data. So, the starting point is to just assemble a whole bunch of examples. In this case, a whole lot of images each labeled with its corresponding digit, zero, one, two, three, and so on. And once we have this collection of data, which we call a training set, we give it to the machine learning system and it uses this data to learn a classifier, a function that takes a new image and returns a digit zero to nine. Okay, so this is the machine learning approach in a nutshell. Okay, so to summarize, in this particular case the problem we want to solve is a classification problem because we want to classify images according to the digit they contain. But the classification problem itself is a little hard to specify precisely. Instead, we specified by means of example, okay. Next time we'll take a look at how we can easily learn a classifier of this type. 